README.md, before:


# react-flip-toolkit

<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/ERRpEj">
<img src="./example-assets/rft-logo.gif" width='550px' alt='react-flip-toolkit animated logo' />
</a>

## Comparison with other React FLIP libraries

| Feature                                        | `react-flip-move` | `react-overdrive` | `react-flip-toolkit` |
| ---------------------------------------------- | :---------------: | :---------------: | :------------------: |
| Animate position                               | ✅                 | ✅                 | ✅                    |
| Animate size                                   | ❌                 | ✅                 | ✅                    |
| Animate opacity                                | ❌                 | ✅                 | ✅                    |
| Animate parent's size without warping children | ❌                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Use real FLIP instead of cloning & crossfading | ✅                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Enable nested animations                       | ❌                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Use springs for animations                     | ❌                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Easy to set up & beginner-friendly             | ✅                 | ✅                 | 🤷                   |


## Table of Contents
- [Demos](#demos)
- [Quick start](#quick-start)
  - [Simplest example: Tweening a single element](#simplest-example-tweening-a-single-element)
  - [More useful but less simple: Tweening two elements](#more-useful-but-less-simple-tweening-two-elements)
- [The Components](#the-components)
  - [1. Flipper component](#1-flipper-component)
  - [2. Flipped component](#2-flipped-component)
    - [Basic props](#basic-props)
    - [Callback props](#callback-props)
    - [Transform props](#transform-props)
    - [Advanced props](#advanced-props)
- [Scale transitions made eas(ier)](#scale-transitions-made-easier)
- [Library details](#library-details)
- [FAQ](#faq)

## Demos

<p>
<a href="https://literate-fly.surge.sh/photos">
  <img src="./example-assets/photogrid.gif" width='600px' alt='an animation showing click to expand a photo' />
</a>
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/KeevYN">
  <img src="./example-assets/dropdown.gif" width='600px' alt='a smoothly transitioning menu dropdown' />
</a>
</p>
<p>
<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/gKjYNw?editors=0110">
  <img src="./example-assets/sortfilter-1.gif" width='600px' alt='an animation demoing sort and filter operations' />
</a>
</p>

- [Simplest possible example](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/RJvPjL)
- [Guitar shop](https://literate-fly.surge.sh/guitar)
- [Absurd, overly complex, nested example](https://literate-fly.surge.sh/cards)
- [React-flip-toolkit logo](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/ERRpEj)

## Quick start

`npm install react-flip-toolkit`

`import { Flipper, Flipped } from 'react-flip-toolkit'`

Wrap your container element with a `Flipper` component that has a `flipKey` prop that changes every time an animation should happen.

Wrap elements that should be animated with `Flipped` components that have `flipId` props matching them across renders.

### Simplest example: tweening a single element

```jsx
import React, { Component } from React;
import { Flipper, Flipped } from 'react-flip-toolkit';

class AnimatedSquare extends Component {
  state = { fullScreen: false };

  toggleFullScreen = () => {
    this.setState(prevState => ({
      fullScreen: !prevState.fullScreen
    }));
  };

  render() {
    return (
      <Flipper flipKey={this.state.fullScreen}>
        <Flipped flipId="square">
          <div
            className={this.state.fullScreen ? "full-screen-square" : "square"}
            onClick={this.toggleFullScreen}
          />
        </Flipped>
      </Flipper>
    );
  }
}
```

[view on codepen](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/oyKJgL)

### More useful: tweening different elements

The power of FLIP lies in smoothly tweening two completely separate elements to appear as if they are one:

```jsx
import React, { Component } from React;
import { Flipper, Flipped } from 'react-flip-toolkit';

const SmallSquare = ({ onClick, ...rest}) => (
  <div className="square" onClick={onClick} {...rest} />
);

const BigSquare = ({ onClick, ...rest }) => (
  <div className="full-screen-square" onClick={onClick} {...rest}/>
);

class AnimatedSquare extends Component {
  state = { fullScreen: false };

  toggleFullScreen = () => {
    this.setState(prevState => ({
      fullScreen: !prevState.fullScreen
    }));
  };

  render() {
    return (
      <Flipper flipKey={this.state.fullScreen}>
        {this.state.fullScreen ? (
          <Flipped flipId="square">
            <BigSquare onClick={this.toggleFullScreen} />
          </Flipped>
        ) : (
          <Flipped flipId="square">
            <SmallSquare onClick={this.toggleFullScreen} />
          </Flipped>
        )}
      </Flipper>
    );
  }
}
```
[view on codepen](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/qKeLaN)


## The Components

### 1. `Flipper`

The parent wrapper component that contains all the elements to be animated.

```jsx
<Flipper flipKey={someKeyThatChanges}>
  {/* children */}
</Flipper>
```

| prop                    | default                                        | type                       | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------------- | :--------------------------------------------: | :------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| flipKey **(required)**  | -                                              | `string`, `number`, `bool` | Changing this tells `react-flip-toolkit` to transition child elements wrapped in `Flipped` components.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| children **(required)** | -                                              | `node`                     | One or more element children                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| spring                  | `{stiffness: 1000`, `damping: 500`, `mass: 3}` | `object`                   | **The default easing for all transitions uses springs**. You can customize the spring by changing the `stiffness`, `damping`, or `mass` values passed in the `spring` object prop. If you provide an `ease` prop (described below), that will be used instead instead of a spring. |
| ease                    | `easeOutExpo`                                  | `string`                   | If you'd rather use easing functions instead of springs, you can set the default easing for all FLIP transitions by providing a name of an easing function. [Try out all easing options](https://codepen.io/aholachek/full/bKmZbV/)                                                |
| duration                | `250`                                          | `number`                   | Default duration in `ms` for all FLIP transitions that use the `ease` prop instead of the default `spring` (which uses a physics simulation and therefore doesn't require a duration)                                                                                              |
| applyTransformOrigin    | `true`                                         | `bool`                     | Whether or not `react-flip-toolkit` should apply a transform-origin of "0 0" to animating children (this is generally desirable for FLIP animations)                                                                                                                               |

### 2. `Flipped` **exitingElements.indexOf()**

Wraps an element that needs to be animated.

E.g. in one component you can have

```jsx
<Flipped flipId="coolDiv">
  <div className="small" />
</Flipped>
```

and in another component somewhere else you can have

```jsx
<Flipped flipId="coolDiv">
  <div className="big" />
</Flipped>
```

and they will be tweened by `react-flip-toolkit`.

#### Basic props

| prop                    | default                                        | type     | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------- | :--------------------------------------------: | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children **(required)** | -                                              | `node`   | Wrap a single child with the `Flipped` component. If the child is a React component, make sure it passes down unknown props directly to the rendered DOM element so that `Flipped` can pass down the necessary `data-*` attributes.              |
| flipId **(required)**   | -                                              | `string` | Use this to tell `react-flip-toolkit` how elements should be matched across renders so they can be animated.                                                                                                                                     |
| inverseFlipId           | -                                              | `string` | Refer to the id of the parent `Flipped` container whose transform you want to cancel out. [Read more about canceling out parent transforms here.](#scale-transitions-made-easier)                                                                |
| transformOrigin         | `"0 0"`                                        | `string` | This is a convenience method to apply the proper CSS `transform-origin` to the element being FLIP-ped. This will override `react-flip-toolkit`'s default application of `transform-origin: 0 0` if it is provided as a prop.                     |
| spring                  | `{stiffness: 1000`, `damping: 500`, `mass: 3}` | `object` | You can customize the spring on a per-element basis by changing the `stiffness`, `damping`, or `mass` values passed in the `spring` object prop. If you provide an `ease` prop (described below), that will be used instead instead of a spring. |
| ease                    | `easeOutExpo`                                  | `string` | This string should refer to [one of the available easing options](https://codepen.io/aholachek/full/bKmZbV/). This prop will override the easing specified in the parent `Flipped` component.                                                    |
| duration                | `250`                                          | `number` | Timing for the individual FLIP transition. This is only meaningful if you've specified an `ease` prop, because springs don't take durations. This prop will override the one specified in the parent `Flipped` component if one exists.          |
| delay                   | `0`                                            | `number` | Amount of time to wait before tweening the element position. You can use this to create the effect of staggered transitions.                                                                                                                     |

#### Callback props

| prop            | arguments                           | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onAppear        | `element`, `index`                  | Called when the element first appears. It is provided a reference to the DOM element being transitioned as the first argument, and the index of the element relative to all appearing elements as the second.                                                                                          |
| onDelayedAppear | `element`, `index`                  | This is a replacement for  `onAppear` that is called only after all exiting elements have finished exiting. It automatically applies `opacity: 0` to newly appeared elements at the very beginning. So the `onDelayedAppear` function must be responsible for tweening or setting the `opacity` value. |
| onStart         | `element`                           | Called when the FLIP animation starts. It is provided a reference to the DOM element being transitioned as the first argument                                                                                                                                                                          |
| onComplete      | `element`                           | Called when the FLIP animation completes. It is provided a reference to the DOM element being transitioned as the first argument. (If transitions are interruped by new ones, `onComplete` will still be called.)                                                                                      |
| onExit          | `element`, `index`, `removeElement` | Called when the element is removed from the DOM. It must call the `removeElement` function when the exit transition has completed.                                                                                                                                                                     |

#### Transform props

By default the FLIP-ped elements' translate, scale, and opacity properties are all transformed. However, certain effects require more control so if you specify any of these props, _only the specified attribute(s) will be tweened_:

| prop      | type   | details                             |
| --------- | :----: | :---------------------------------- |
| translate | `bool` | Tween `translateX` and `translateY` |
| scale     | `bool` | Tween `scaleX` and `scaleY`         |
| opacity   | `bool` |                                     |

#### Advanced props

| prop              | type             | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------- | :--------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| componentId       | `string`         | Unique identifier for the component                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| componentIdFilter | `array`,`string` | Only apply FLIP transitions if the transition originates or ends with a component with the specified `componentId`. To limit the application of an inverse transform, you refer to the parent's `componentId` [as seen in this example.](https://github.com/aholachek/react-flip-toolkit/blob/master/demo/src/CardsExample/UserGrid.js#L44) |

## Scale transitions made eas(ier)

Some other FLIP libraries just allow you to animate position changes, but things get more interesting [once you can animate scale changes as well](#demos).

<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/mKXBJR?editors=0110">
<img src="./example-assets/nested-example.gif" width='600px' alt='an animation demoing nested scale transforms' />
</a>

[view on Codepen](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/mKXBJR)

The problem with scale animations has to do with children &mdash; if you scale a div up 2x, you will warp any children it has by scaling them up too, creating a weird-looking animation. That's why this library allows you to wrap the child with a `Flipped` component that has an `inverseFlipId` to counteract the transforms of the parent:

```jsx
<Flipped flipId={parentFlipId}>
  <div>
    <Flipped inverseFlipId={parentFlipId} scale>
      <div>some text that will not be warped</div>
    </Flipped>
  </div>
</Flipped>
```

By default, both the scale and the translation transforms of the parent will be counteracted (this allows children components to make their own FLIP animations without being affected by the parent).
But for many/most use cases, you'll want to additionally specify the `scale` prop to limit the adjustment to the scale and allow the positioning to move with the parent.

**For the most seamless results** the div with the inverse transform applied should lie flush against its parent container &mdash; that means any padding should be applied to the inverted container rather than the parent container with the transform that it is inverting.

## Library details

- ~11kb minified and gzipped
- React 16+
- Tested in latest Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge, with acceptable performance in IE 11

## FAQ

- **Why isn't anything animating?** Make sure you're updating the `flipKey` attribute in the `Flipper` component whenever an animation should happen.

- **Why does my animation look "off"?** Try increasing the duration to something ridiculous like `10000` so that you can catch every detail. When the animations happen quickly it's hard to consciously spot little issues that can interfere with the final effect.

- **Why is the element animating from or to an unexpected position?** At any point, there can only be one element with a specified `flipId` on the page. If there are multiple `Flipped` elements on the page with the same id, things will start to get weird. Check to make sure all `flipId`s are unique.

Commit message:

trying to reduce library size with better importing

README.md, after:


# react-flip-toolkit

<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/ERRpEj">
<img src="./example-assets/rft-logo.gif" width='550px' alt='react-flip-toolkit animated logo' />
</a>

## Comparison with other React FLIP libraries

| Feature                                        | `react-flip-move` | `react-overdrive` | `react-flip-toolkit` |
| ---------------------------------------------- | :---------------: | :---------------: | :------------------: |
| Animate position                               | ✅                 | ✅                 | ✅                    |
| Animate size                                   | ❌                 | ✅                 | ✅                    |
| Animate opacity                                | ❌                 | ✅                 | ✅                    |
| Animate parent's size without warping children | ❌                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Use real FLIP instead of cloning & crossfading | ✅                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Enable nested animations                       | ❌                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Use springs for animations                     | ❌                 | ❌                 | ✅                    |
| Easy to set up & beginner-friendly             | ✅                 | ✅                 | 🤷                   |


## Table of Contents
- [Demos](#demos)
- [Quick start](#quick-start)
  - [Simplest example: Tweening a single element](#simplest-example-tweening-a-single-element)
  - [More useful but less simple: Tweening two elements](#more-useful-but-less-simple-tweening-two-elements)
- [The Components](#the-components)
  - [1. Flipper component](#1-flipper-component)
  - [2. Flipped component](#2-flipped-component)
    - [Basic props](#basic-props)
    - [Callback props](#callback-props)
    - [Transform props](#transform-props)
    - [Advanced props](#advanced-props)
- [Scale transitions made eas(ier)](#scale-transitions-made-easier)
- [Library details](#library-details)
- [FAQ](#faq)

## Demos

<p>
<a href="https://literate-fly.surge.sh/photos">
  <img src="./example-assets/photogrid.gif" width='600px' alt='an animation showing click to expand a photo' />
</a>
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/KeevYN">
  <img src="./example-assets/dropdown.gif" width='600px' alt='a smoothly transitioning menu dropdown' />
</a>
</p>
<p>
<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/gKjYNw?editors=0110">
  <img src="./example-assets/sortfilter-1.gif" width='600px' alt='an animation demoing sort and filter operations' />
</a>
</p>

- [Updating list (React-flip-move example clone)](https://literate-fly.surge.sh/flip-move)
- [Simplest possible example](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/RJvPjL)
- [Guitar shop](https://literate-fly.surge.sh/guitar)
- [Absurd, overly complex, nested example](https://literate-fly.surge.sh/cards)
- [React-flip-toolkit logo](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/ERRpEj)

## Quick start

`npm install react-flip-toolkit`

`import { Flipper, Flipped } from 'react-flip-toolkit'`

Wrap your container element with a `Flipper` component that has a `flipKey` prop that changes every time an animation should happen.

Wrap elements that should be animated with `Flipped` components that have `flipId` props matching them across renders.

### Simplest example: tweening a single element

```jsx
import React, { Component } from React;
import { Flipper, Flipped } from 'react-flip-toolkit';

class AnimatedSquare extends Component {
  state = { fullScreen: false };

  toggleFullScreen = () => {
    this.setState(prevState => ({
      fullScreen: !prevState.fullScreen
    }));
  };

  render() {
    return (
      <Flipper flipKey={this.state.fullScreen}>
        <Flipped flipId="square">
          <div
            className={this.state.fullScreen ? "full-screen-square" : "square"}
            onClick={this.toggleFullScreen}
          />
        </Flipped>
      </Flipper>
    );
  }
}
```

[view on codepen](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/oyKJgL)

### More useful: tweening different elements

The power of FLIP lies in smoothly tweening two completely separate elements to appear as if they are one:

```jsx
import React, { Component } from React;
import { Flipper, Flipped } from 'react-flip-toolkit';

const SmallSquare = ({ onClick, ...rest}) => (
  <div className="square" onClick={onClick} {...rest} />
);

const BigSquare = ({ onClick, ...rest }) => (
  <div className="full-screen-square" onClick={onClick} {...rest}/>
);

class AnimatedSquare extends Component {
  state = { fullScreen: false };

  toggleFullScreen = () => {
    this.setState(prevState => ({
      fullScreen: !prevState.fullScreen
    }));
  };

  render() {
    return (
      <Flipper flipKey={this.state.fullScreen}>
        {this.state.fullScreen ? (
          <Flipped flipId="square">
            <BigSquare onClick={this.toggleFullScreen} />
          </Flipped>
        ) : (
          <Flipped flipId="square">
            <SmallSquare onClick={this.toggleFullScreen} />
          </Flipped>
        )}
      </Flipper>
    );
  }
}
```
[view on codepen](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/qKeLaN)


## The Components

### 1. `Flipper`

The parent wrapper component that contains all the elements to be animated.

```jsx
<Flipper flipKey={someKeyThatChanges}>
  {/* children */}
</Flipper>
```

| prop                    | default                                        | type                       | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------------- | :--------------------------------------------: | :------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| flipKey **(required)**  | -                                              | `string`, `number`, `bool` | Changing this tells `react-flip-toolkit` to transition child elements wrapped in `Flipped` components.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| children **(required)** | -                                              | `node`                     | One or more element children                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| spring                  | `{stiffness: 1000`, `damping: 500`, `mass: 3}` | `object`                   | **The default easing for all transitions uses springs**. You can customize the spring by changing the `stiffness`, `damping`, or `mass` values passed in the `spring` object prop. If you provide an `ease` prop (described below), that will be used instead instead of a spring. |
| ease                    | `easeOutExpo`                                  | `string`                   | If you'd rather use easing functions instead of springs, you can set the default easing for all FLIP transitions by providing a name of an easing function. [Try out all easing options](https://codepen.io/aholachek/full/bKmZbV/)                                                |
| duration                | `250`                                          | `number`                   | Default duration in `ms` for all FLIP transitions that use the `ease` prop instead of the default `spring` (which uses a physics simulation and therefore doesn't require a duration)                                                                                              |
| applyTransformOrigin    | `true`                                         | `bool`                     | Whether or not `react-flip-toolkit` should apply a transform-origin of "0 0" to animating children (this is generally desirable for FLIP animations)                                                                                                                               |

### 2. `Flipped` **exitingElements.indexOf()**

Wraps an element that needs to be animated.

E.g. in one component you can have

```jsx
<Flipped flipId="coolDiv">
  <div className="small" />
</Flipped>
```

and in another component somewhere else you can have

```jsx
<Flipped flipId="coolDiv">
  <div className="big" />
</Flipped>
```

and they will be tweened by `react-flip-toolkit`.

#### Basic props

| prop                    | default                                        | type     | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------- | :--------------------------------------------: | :------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| children **(required)** | -                                              | `node`   | Wrap a single child with the `Flipped` component. If the child is a React component, make sure it passes down unknown props directly to the rendered DOM element so that `Flipped` can pass down the necessary `data-*` attributes.              |
| flipId **(required)**   | -                                              | `string` | Use this to tell `react-flip-toolkit` how elements should be matched across renders so they can be animated.                                                                                                                                     |
| inverseFlipId           | -                                              | `string` | Refer to the id of the parent `Flipped` container whose transform you want to cancel out. [Read more about canceling out parent transforms here.](#scale-transitions-made-easier)                                                                |
| transformOrigin         | `"0 0"`                                        | `string` | This is a convenience method to apply the proper CSS `transform-origin` to the element being FLIP-ped. This will override `react-flip-toolkit`'s default application of `transform-origin: 0 0` if it is provided as a prop.                     |
| spring                  | `{stiffness: 1000`, `damping: 500`, `mass: 3}` | `object` | You can customize the spring on a per-element basis by changing the `stiffness`, `damping`, or `mass` values passed in the `spring` object prop. If you provide an `ease` prop (described below), that will be used instead instead of a spring. |
| ease                    | `easeOutExpo`                                  | `string` | This string should refer to [one of the available easing options](https://codepen.io/aholachek/full/bKmZbV/). This prop will override the easing specified in the parent `Flipped` component.                                                    |
| duration                | `250`                                          | `number` | Timing for the individual FLIP transition. This is only meaningful if you've specified an `ease` prop, because springs don't take durations. This prop will override the one specified in the parent `Flipped` component if one exists.          |
| delay                   | `0`                                            | `number` | Amount of time to wait before tweening the element position. You can use this to create the effect of staggered transitions.                                                                                                                     |

#### Callback props

| prop            | arguments                           | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --------------- | :---------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| onAppear        | `element`, `index`                  | Called when the element first appears. It is provided a reference to the DOM element being transitioned as the first argument, and the index of the element relative to all appearing elements as the second.                                                                                          |
| onDelayedAppear | `element`, `index`                  | This is a replacement for  `onAppear` that is called only after all exiting elements have finished exiting. It automatically applies `opacity: 0` to newly appeared elements at the very beginning. So the `onDelayedAppear` function must be responsible for tweening or setting the `opacity` value. |
| onStart         | `element`                           | Called when the FLIP animation starts. It is provided a reference to the DOM element being transitioned as the first argument                                                                                                                                                                          |
| onComplete      | `element`                           | Called when the FLIP animation completes. It is provided a reference to the DOM element being transitioned as the first argument. (If transitions are interruped by new ones, `onComplete` will still be called.)                                                                                      |
| onExit          | `element`, `index`, `removeElement` | Called when the element is removed from the DOM. It must call the `removeElement` function when the exit transition has completed.                                                                                                                                                                     |

#### Transform props

By default the FLIP-ped elements' translate, scale, and opacity properties are all transformed. However, certain effects require more control so if you specify any of these props, _only the specified attribute(s) will be tweened_:

| prop      | type   | details                             |
| --------- | :----: | :---------------------------------- |
| translate | `bool` | Tween `translateX` and `translateY` |
| scale     | `bool` | Tween `scaleX` and `scaleY`         |
| opacity   | `bool` |                                     |

#### Advanced props

| prop              | type             | details                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ----------------- | :--------------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| componentId       | `string`         | Unique identifier for the component                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| componentIdFilter | `array`,`string` | Only apply FLIP transitions if the transition originates or ends with a component with the specified `componentId`. To limit the application of an inverse transform, you refer to the parent's `componentId` [as seen in this example.](https://github.com/aholachek/react-flip-toolkit/blob/master/demo/src/CardsExample/UserGrid.js#L44) |

## Scale transitions made eas(ier)

Some other FLIP libraries just allow you to animate position changes, but things get more interesting [once you can animate scale changes as well](#demos).

<a href="https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/mKXBJR?editors=0110">
<img src="./example-assets/nested-example.gif" width='600px' alt='an animation demoing nested scale transforms' />
</a>

[view on Codepen](https://codepen.io/aholachek/pen/mKXBJR)

The problem with scale animations has to do with children &mdash; if you scale a div up 2x, you will warp any children it has by scaling them up too, creating a weird-looking animation. That's why this library allows you to wrap the child with a `Flipped` component that has an `inverseFlipId` to counteract the transforms of the parent:

```jsx
<Flipped flipId={parentFlipId}>
  <div>
    <Flipped inverseFlipId={parentFlipId} scale>
      <div>some text that will not be warped</div>
    </Flipped>
  </div>
</Flipped>
```

By default, both the scale and the translation transforms of the parent will be counteracted (this allows children components to make their own FLIP animations without being affected by the parent).
But for many/most use cases, you'll want to additionally specify the `scale` prop to limit the adjustment to the scale and allow the positioning to move with the parent.

**For the most seamless results** the div with the inverse transform applied should lie flush against its parent container &mdash; that means any padding should be applied to the inverted container rather than the parent container with the transform that it is inverting.

## Library details

- ~11.4kb minified and gzipped
- React 16+
- Tested in latest Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. Acceptable performance in IE 11.

## FAQ

- **Why isn't anything animating?** Make sure you're updating the `flipKey` attribute in the `Flipper` component whenever an animation should happen.

- **Why does my animation look "off"?** Try increasing the duration to something ridiculous like `10000` so that you can catch every detail. When the animations happen quickly it's hard to consciously spot little issues that can interfere with the final effect.

- **Why is the element animating from or to an unexpected position?** At any point, there can only be one element with a specified `flipId` on the page. If there are multiple `Flipped` elements on the page with the same id, things will start to get weird. Check to make sure all `flipId`s are unique.
